So there's a few more demos here,
as I was saying,
some of them are like mp3 related
which you won't really get into and
even using your microphone or
visualizing audio.
But this last one here, it's kind
of fun as well, the sequencer demo.
[MUSIC]
And if we go into this sequencer demo.
You'll see it's quite a bulky demo.
So it's a little bit more than
I'll go through entirely.
But there's just a few things that you
might want to pick out of here and
maybe use in your own sense.
One of the things that's kinda
interesting is the idea of a polysynth.
So in Tone.js, you can layer up a synth
that has multiple oscillators, and
it ends up sounding a little bit richer,
kind of like what I was exploring earlier.
But this way you actually have multiple
synths that are overlapping in
slightly different envelopes for
each of them,
maybe even different oscillators and
so on.
And so that's what you can use to
create some of the more richer sounds
that you're hearing in this demo.
Another thing that is starting
to be explored in this demo but
it's a very big topic within Tone.js,
but you can use tones transport and
sequencing functions that allows you to
do things like automatically scheduling
notes in a way that is corresponding
with the beats per minute of the track.
So that you don't have to use
timers like set timeout or
request animation frame because those
are not very accurate with Web Audio.
And so instead, you wanna use something
like Tone.js which has its own timers
that are specific for Web Audio and
they are in sync with Web Audio.
And they just give you some
sort of access for that.
So this Tone.Transport is one way to
start to do these kinds of timings and
these kind of controls and mechanisms
that happen where something repeats,
let's say, or something happens over
the course of some track or something.
So if we just go into Transport.
You can see here they
have an example where you
repeat some event on a single
sort of on every 8 note.
You first set up your Tone.Transport,
you schedule a repeat,
you pass in the function which is
going to give you back a time.
And this is a time in the audio context,
not in real browser time.
And then from there you can use a synth or
you can use an oscillator,
you can use some sort of output device.
It could even just be an MP3 file or
something, and
you can trigger that at the exact
time that this repeat has to happen.
And then once you set up your repeats,
you have to actually start the transport
to start the timing mechanisms.
So here what we're doing is every 2m,
which should be something
to do with the bars.
Every 2m, we repeat this function here,
which is the randomizer sequence function.
And the idea is that when that happens,
we do some shuffling and
we do some sort of procedural, try and
create a sequence that has a bit of
randomness to it, but also doesn't
have too many predictable sounds.
So I've just created a sort of structure
here that works well enough for this demo,
but for something like Bellwoods where
I was really trying to create like
procedural music that sounded nice.
It took a little bit of
time to find some rules and
some parameters that allowed me to
create these random sequences of notes
that didn't sound too repetitive,
didn't sound too chaotic.
And a lot of that here is just trying
to see if there's anything that's
two consecutive notes, then maybe
fixing that in this set of code here.
And instead of just using pure randomness,
which is a uniform random distribution,
you can use something like Gaussian
random distribution to just get some more
interesting sort of variation in
the way the notes are being placed and
things like that.
And then here,
when the mouse is actually pressed,
this is where we start the transport here.
We also use another feature of
Tone.js called sequence.
And we're just using this to try and
basically create the actual
sequence of notes
that is happening through this system.
So this demo is a little bit more complex,
It's got a lot more to it,
it even has to get into
something else called tone.draw.
I don't wanna dive into all these things
because it is a bit of a can of worms.
And I think it's better to just start
with the basics of just starting
with using the synth,
using the filters, and
just trying to create sort
of basic effects from that.
And if you really want to get into
creating your own like MIDI player or
something like that, that's where
you can start to dive into some of
these time based and
transport based functions of tone.
Which are really powerful, but
also just a lot more complex in terms of
understanding how it all comes together.